9. Climate change is a concerning global issue. Who has the main responsibility to take action to solve this problem, governments, large companies, or individuals?


17. Many education systems assess students' learning using formal written examinations. Those kinds of exams are a valid method. To what extent do you agree or disagree? Give examples with your own experience.

38. Nowadays television has become an essential part of life. It is a medium for disseminating news and information, and for some it acts as a companion. What is your opinion about this?

39. Nowadays, it is increasingly more difficult to maintain the right balance between work and the other aspects of one’s life, such as leisure pursuits with family members. How important do you think this balance is? What are the reasons that make some people think that this is hard to achieve？

56. Some people point that experiential learning (i.e. learning by doing it) can work well in formal education. However, others think a traditional form of teaching is the best. Do you think experiential learning can work well in high schools or colleges?

63. Some universities deduct marks from students' work if it is given in late. What is your opinion? Suggest some alternative actions.

122. Some people say that people are defined by the place where they grew up, but some argue that the environment only has little effect. To what extent do you agree or disagree? Use a celebrity you know to support your opinion.


124. It is often argued that studying overseas is overrated. There are many scholars who study locally. To what extent do you agree with this？


161. There are many global problems. What is the most pressing problem? What solutions would you suggest?

159. In our technological world, the number of new inventions has been evolving daily. Please describe a new invention and determine whether it has a beneficial or detrimental impact on society.

160. Television serves many useful functions. It helps people to relax. Besides, it can also be seen as a companion for the lonely. To what extent do you agree with this? Explain why with your own experience.

261. Some believe the value of travel is highly overrated. 'One brilliant scholar never leaves the home bases.' People argue whether travel is a necessary component of quality education or not. To what extent do you agree with it?

469. How does the design of buildings affect the places, positively and negatively, where people live and work?

184. While artificial intelligence becomes so advanced, people can use computers to translate foreign languages. That makes learning a foreign language unnecessary. To what extent do you agree with it?


22. In the past 100 years, there have been many inventions such as antibiotics, airplanes and computers. What do you think is the most important one? Why?

72. Do you think the design of buildings affects, positively or negatively, where people live and work?

35. The mass media, such as TV, radio and newspapers, have an influence on people, particularly on younger generations. It plays a pivotal role in shaping the opinions of people, especially teenagers and young people. To what extent do you agree with this? Please give examples.

174. Some people say there should be a maximum wage for high-paying jobs. Do you support that？Can you give your point of view or your own experience？

106. Effective study requires time, comfort and peace. It is impossible to combine a student's learning with employment because one may distract the other. To what extent do you think the statements are realistic? Give your opinion with examples.

76. The world's governments and international organizations confront a multitude of global problems. Which do you think is the most pressing problem for the inhabitants of our planet and give the solution?

